It's acting to distract upon the cliff.
Before we get on to the thrust of, but it was very interesting, when you were an undergraduate at Holy Cross College, you wanted to read some books, and you had to request permission from the bishop.
Well, I was introduced to Voltaire Bayeget within my freshman year.
That's right.
I just wanted to point it to you.
That's fine.
It'll pick it up.
And who brought Candide in one day and read us a wonderful section from Candide.
And that was the whole beginning, really, of my career in French studies.
And I often wondered how my life would have turned out had I had a different instructor for French that semester, had I failed to go to class that particular day, and had I not been exposed to Voltaire one morning in, let's say, November of 1959.
But the text itself, I thought, or the scene, was immensely seductive, and I wanted to read more.
My appetite was whetted.
But in those days, for people like me who were accepting of current religious practices and dogma... Well, I was going to.
I was waiting for the word.
For those who were devout, like me, there was a mortal sin to read a book that was on the Roman Index of Forbidden Books.
And all of Voltaire's works were on the index.
Did you mindfully avoid reading those books?
I mean, did you stay away from them?
Well, I wouldn't... Yes, I guess so.
Had you read one surreptitiously, would you have felt like you had sinned?
Well... This is fascinating.
I might well have.
Yes, I would have.
I would have confessed it.
Absolutely.
Sure.
I was confessing everything else I'd done.
Why not confess that?
So I heard about these other juicy books in addition to Candide.
So I wrote to the Bishop of Worcester, Massachusetts and asked for permission to read The Red and the Black,
uh madame bovary and candide and i got a letter back from him giving me permission to read all three with it with the titles uh did he ask you to justify the reason no he did not um and i wish i'd kept that letter i did keep it for years and years and i haven't seen it i haven't seen it probably in another in the last 15 or 20 years or so but did he admonish you and you're reading no it was a very polite letter and i'm some some functionary no doubt drafted it and he signed it um
But it was the right thing for me to do.
That's what you did.
If you believed church teaching, that there was a way to get access to these books, other than simply pulling them off the shelf, and that was to go through the proper procedures and get permission from the bishop, because your soul could be endangered.
Your soul supposedly was endangered by contact with the thoughts embedded in these texts.
They were dangerous.
And they had been seen as dangerous, not simply by the church, but also by the state.
I mean, when Voltaire's works were condemned in his own lifetime, they were burned at the stake.
And they were flogged symbolically by the public executioners.
The books.
The books themselves.
It's so pertinent to the book I'm writing.
But there's an even more interesting kind of sequel to this story because...
Holy Cross invited me back to receive an honorary degree two years ago, and a newspaper, a reporter from the local newspaper called me for an interview prior to my going back, and I told him this story.
And he also did an interview with the Jesuit, Alfred de Sautel, who is still there, and I think he's about 74, 75, still teaching.
They do.
and uh he got in touch with father des hotel and not only did i write to the bishop to ask for permission to read candy but father des hotel had written to the bishop also to ask permission to read candy to his students and so both of us teacher and student unbeknownst to each other were both in correspondence with the bishop of worcester about candide and about landmarks of western that's right literature now this was
Not really that long ago.
We're talking about something that happened in 1959.
We're not talking about something that happened in 1759 or 1859.
I will find a use for it.
I truly will.
While I was waiting out here, I noticed you have on the wall a blind plaque from the New York Times, April 29, 1996.
Librarians ponder the future in the digital age.
Actually, you can be useful.
This will be in two chapters, maybe three or four in this book, because the concluding chapter, a chapter as a section, is going to be a continuum chapter, a continuum to... I'm really hoping to enter this debate, not to take sides, but to report and to get as many interesting stories as I can of where libraries are going.
Maybe we can just enter the discussion.
You certainly are bullish on libraries.
I would have to conclude from
having mounted that conference here in April.
Maybe we could talk a little bit about that and just do the talk.
This is one of the greatest ages to be involved in libraries.
It is one of the greatest ages of library buildings, I'm sorry, of library building, library construction ever.
Because if you look at the horizon now, you look at the landscape here in Europe and in other parts of the world, this is a moment of immense investments in library buildings as buildings.
big investments in technology, too, but even bigger investments in library buildings.
The French have just finished building the biggest library ever in the world at a cost of, I think, $1.6 billion.
The British will soon finish, finally, the new British library at a cost of, what, £600 million sterling.
The Germans are building a library in Frankfurt that nobody hears about because it's not controversial.
I'm going to see it
Monday and Tuesday this coming week.
But this is a library with capacity for 18 million books.
Okay?
The brand new libraries in this country in Los Angeles, refurbished and new editions of Los Angeles, brand new library in San Francisco, Chicago, Cleveland, San Antonio, I think.
Boston Public Library is being refurbished.
We're doing a lot of building here, more or less from the outside, from the inside out.
That's right.
New library in Copenhagen.
The Japanese are contemplating an immense new national library.
Do you have an explanation for this?
Well, there are several explanations.
One is that the principal structures that have housed library collections
in many of the world's great cities were late 19th, early 20th century facilities, or had dated from earlier periods and with upgradings.
But, you know, the Great Reading Room of the BN in Paris, the Library of Congress is a 19th century building.
This is an early 20th century building.
And we and the collections have simply outgrown the capacity
of these buildings to house them adequately.
And at the turn of the century, as one of my colleagues in the world of European libraries says, it's like the 12th or 13th century.
Again, if that was the age of great cathedral building in Europe, this is the age of great library building.
But you can expand the metaphor, adjusting to the Gothic cathedral part of it, outside the territory of Europe and see it happening in many other parts of the world as well.
Would you subscribe to that?
Sure, absolutely.
It's a thrilling age in that regard because great architects are being employed.
Huge sums of public money, federal, state, and city are being devoted to library construction and renovation.
In New York, very substantial private sector support is coming into research libraries and public libraries.
One of the reasons that this is an exciting time to be involved in the management of libraries is the fact that it's a period of building.
And if you like to build and be involved in that aspect of this kind of work, then this is one of the greatest periods ever.
I would estimate that the total building program of this decade, I've never really done a calculation, but it's probably...
I would say it's at least in the area of $3 billion that's being invested in library buildings in the 1990s.
Does this reflect a commitment to the printed book?
Well, that's another issue.
I was going to get to that in a moment.
Yes, the conviction is that books are here to stay and that libraries will not contemplate at all walking away from a commitment to preserving and storing hard copies.
books, ephemera, magazines, manuscripts, all these things.
And so we are building ever bigger storehouses for print copies.
So from my vantage point, all this talk about the virtual library really is terribly naive and carries into it a whole set of false hypotheses that
that I think take the power of contemporary technology and without a whole lot of insight use that to mount a theory of the library becoming transparent and disappearing as a structure and becoming inessential and so on and so forth.
The hard reality is that we have the know-how to create electronic
based images of just about anything.
The Beowulf manuscript at the British Library, or 19th century photographs here, or what have you.
But we don't have the resources to do that on a truly massive scale.
When we did the summit here of World Library leaders in April,
I calculated, according to the statistics that were given in one of these big international directories of libraries, what the total holdings of the libraries represented around the table were.
And we had close to 50 libraries, research libraries, university libraries, national libraries, and urban public libraries.
And if you just add up the numbers of the items in the collections, those 49 or 50 people
have the responsibility of overseeing 500 million items in the collection, so half a billion items, a major portion of the world's cultural patrimony.
Now, if you, all right, so 500 million, let's say each one was an average of 100 pages.
And let's say that it costs between four and eight dollars a page to digitize that.
We're talking billions of dollars.
No one's ever going to give us
billions, or even hundreds of millions of dollars, to digitize these collections.
That's just not within the realm of possibility, as far as I can see.
And the demand for much of it is very slight.
It's very, very slight.
I'll give you an example.
Not all that long ago, I decided to branch out a bit.
Staying within the realm of Voltaire, and more specifically the realm of Candida, I decided to go away from the text a bit and start looking at the images
the illustrations that have been done over time to accompany the text.
And I'd never really done that before, but I had mounted an exhibit here on La Fontaine and got involved in the relationship between illustration and text.
And for La Fontaine it works wonderfully because some of the greatest artists in France had illustrated La Fontaine.
And so I did a paper on Candida and its illustrators over 200 years.
That became a slide talk and so on and so forth.
I'm doing it in September if you can.
I'll send your notice on it if you care to see it.
It'll be at the Maison Francaise at NYU.
It was done first for the Grollier Club.
But the long and short of it is the following.
I had to get my hands on all these various editions of Candidate illustrations from let's say 1778 until 1994.
And somebody had done a bibliography of the illustrated editions of Kennedy.
So I did a computer-based search to see what was out there and where to find the location of these books.
And I saved myself a lot of time by doing that.
I probably saved myself a couple of weeks' worth of old-fashioned kind of research.
We had to go to the library and check the card catalog and so on and so forth.
Can I go on a little bit about this?
It's an illustrative story about conducting research in the humanities today.
I can't speak as authoritatively about conducting research in economics and in the social sciences, because
There is no doubt a higher level of presence of technology in some of those.
But in any case, so I found that Columbia University had a series of things.
So I went up to Columbia and looked in the electronic catalog there and got my call numbers and so on and so forth.
Although, and this is off the record because I don't wish to be critical of my own university.
The bibliographical records that they've mounted electronically there are very, very skimpy.
And you couldn't tell from the record whether or not these books were illustrated or not.
I think you find that everywhere, though.
Even I think you find that at Harvard.
Really?
Well, that's rough, because if you're doing this particular kind of research, you need to know if there are illustrations.
And the old-fashioned catalog entry would have had illustrations, and ideally illustrated by so-and-so.
And some of the records that we had here were
very, very detailed in terms of the illustrator and so on and so forth.
So I felt lucky that I knew that some of the things that I was seeing there were illustrated, but I couldn't have learned it from that catalog.
So already you got... I miss the card catalogs.
I really do.
I love them.
So then I went up to the Rare Book Division.
This is still at Columbia.
Still at Columbia.
And...
saw the things that I needed to see, and they were very gracious.
And then I happened to have a conversation with one of the rare book librarians, because one of the texts that they had there was by Rockwell Kent, one of the famous illustrations of Candide.
And she said,
oh you know we um downstairs the new catalog room i checked the card catalog on the electronic catalog and she happened to say oh by the way do you know that we've got a lot of the original artwork that rockwell kent did for his books great serendipitous moments and i said yes part of the kent archive or what have you i said well how's somebody to know i went through the catalogs downstairs both
The hard copy and electronic catalog says, oh, but we don't cross-catalogue.
This is in manuscripts, and we don't cross-catalogue manuscripts with this stuff downstairs.
And my librarian colleagues here laughed when I said that, and they said, oh, of course, this is the oral tradition.
It's in the librarian's head.
To me, the old tradition was something else in Catholic school.
It's the oral tradition, so that you always have to ask the librarian because you can't be sure that your research is ever finished.
So I had the photographer come.
He made all the pictures.
Then I checked the BN catalog, printed, hard copy, to get all the citations I needed to look at illustrated editions in Paris.
And I went to Paris, and thank God, because of this job, I get wonderful treatment in Paris.
I faxed my counterpart there, everything I needed to see.
I got there, they had prepaged everything.
I went to one room, there were 25 different illustrated editions of Candide.
I went to another room, there were 25 more waiting for me.
I did, in half a day, what would have taken me... A week?
Oh, two, three, maybe, depending on the number of...
Not nearly as thorough either, probably.
It would have been a backbreaker the other way.
But that status, I mean, the point of the story is, there are several points of the story.
One is that there is no substitute, and I can't imagine when there will ever be a substitute for having to displace yourself physically to go to the collection to see the real McCoy.
We're going to have to do that for generations to come, I think.
Well, for quite some time to come.
I can't say for how long.
And why?
Because where's the demand and what justifies the economic commitment of even a great library like the Bibliotech National to put all these illustrated editions of Candide into electronic format?
It would be thousands of pages
on the off chance that somebody 50 years from now might be interested.
That's right.
Now, there are very few human beings who have ever done what I did.
I mean, who have an interest in this?
It makes for a wonderful talk.
I mean, that's really a neat talk.
Remind me when we're done it, just ask me about the prologue to my new book.
Okay.
All right.
Because it's absolutely a story.
It's precisely the kind of thing that you're talking about.
All right.
So, there are major sectors of scholarship.
that rely on two things in order for them to be conducted and materialize or take place.
One is that there be a curious person somewhere alive at some point in world history who is... I knew this was going to be a good day.
...who's got a passionate interest in finding out about something.
And the second thing is that the documents have to exist somewhere and have been preserved over time.
in some archive, some library, some private collection.
Some individual or people by lot, happenstance, desire, plan, what have you, chose to keep these things.
And so the two get put together.
And then inquiry takes place, knowledge is accumulated, and the research results are published or are disseminated somehow to other interested parties.
That's a very, very concrete... My story is a concrete example of how this works contiguously, every day.
There are hundreds or thousands of people in libraries all over the world who are conducting inquiry along because they're passionately interested about something and because the collection has been preserved.
But the person who looks at this one phenomenon might come along.
Who knows when he's going to come along or she's going to come along.
It could be a very rare thing.
It could be once in a century.
It could be once every 20 years.
You can't plan for that.
So should you raise, is it prudent, is it meaningful to raise tens of millions or hundreds of millions of dollars to transform these colossal collections into digital formats
and then try to preserve that electronic storehouse intact.
That's a whole other issue.
And then create all the finding tools so people can navigate into these massive databases so that the scholar can perform his own work.
I don't think we're there yet.
Were it ever to happen, to be sure, there'll be lots of people roaming all over through these storehouses, but I don't think it's going to happen.
Let me just say one more thing.
We're not planning the transition of this building here at 42nd Street into what I hope will be the most dazzling and the most awesome humanities center anywhere.
Because especially other collections have been moved out to the new library, economics and public affairs and science throughout.
So now we have the biggest publicly accessible humanities and social sciences collection under one roof, I think, in the world.
And the publicly accessible is an important part, but anybody can come here to use them.
So in order to do it right, I brought together a group of high-end, high-level scholars, and I asked Robert Darton, the historian at Princeton, whom I brought on to our board, Jared, Simon Shamas on that group, Linda Nochlin.
And when we had our first meeting around this table, my question to them was, how much does electronically formatted information mean to you, and how much do you use it, and how much do your graduate students use it?
Shama Darden, who else?
Linda Nochlin.
We can show you the list.
It's a very, very good list.
And I think to a person, they said they used it, as I did, for bibliographical searches.
But I remember Shama saying that he still insisted that his students see the actual documents.
You've got to get your hand on the letters, on the deeds, the wills, the testaments, and all these other kinds of things, the broadsides.
the clandestine publications, the pamphlets, and so on and so forth, see them.
And there's so much out there.
I can't imagine... I just can't imagine these huge collections ever fitting on a disc the size of a penny.
But there are people in positions not unlike yours who feel that... I mean, there's a gentleman at Stanford
It was said to have said regarding the future, if you can't plug it in, I'm not interested.
Have you heard that quote?
He's a librarian?
Yeah.
I think he's backed away from him.
It was published, as a matter of fact.
It's a very foolish statement.
Dumb.
Very foolish statement.
I'm going to question this man on this.
Have the document in your hands.
It really is.
I think it's more than a thrill.
This afternoon I'll be seeing Stephen Jay Gould, who actually, he says he cannot even work from facsimiles.
He has to hold, there's something almost ineffable that comes from the document.
I can put an authentic first edition of Can't Eat in Your Hands right there on the shelf.
I bought it recently.
There are 19 known copies in existence.
The real first.
You have one here in your office.
Yes, it's right.
You'll have to get it.
Well, you see those little books there?
You see the red, at the end of that shelf, all those little books are various editions of Candide from 1759.
But you have them here.
I find that they are... Well, they're mine.
They're not the libraries.
I mean, I'm not Carter Burden.
I'm collecting in a very narrow niche.
But yes, they're here.
And what do you get out of having these... Inspiration.
Inspiration.
They're... Have you been to the Harvard Depository up in... Have you heard of it, the Harvard Depository?
This is the off-site depository?
Yeah, it's the Southboro Campus, they call it.
No, I haven't.
Where... It's Central Mass.
It's basically... I've been there.
To me, it's like a Valley of the Kings.
It's a warehouse, isn't it?
Really, it's there, these little modules that they build, and they keep
going outward.
Everyone can hold two and a half million items and everything is barcoded.
They're not by titles.
It's rare.
Items are placed that goes back to what you were saying.
They're things that haven't been requested in 25 or 30 years.
If an item is requested, say, more than once a year, then it might go back to a campus library.
But they're not about to digitize this stuff.
Of course not.
And it's there, and they have a very efficient system for retrieving, storing.
They'll have it available to you in 24 hours or less if you're willing to pay a fee.
And I think that that's kind of the happy balance.
But I'm also interested in the shape of books of the future.
I think a lot of research, particularly in the sciences, is not being published, per se, is it?
It's available to these other scholars on
That's what I'm hearing.
Joshua, are you talking to Joshua Lederberg?
Do you know him?
No, but I should say somebody I should be diving through.
Joshua Lederberg is a Nobel laureate and was for a number of years the head of the president of the Rockefeller University here in New York, where he's still a member of the faculty.
He served on the principal advisory group that we had for Sybil in the Science Industry and Business Library.
Oh, I should talk to him.
And he will speak...
at great length, with great insight and a lot of passion, about electronic publishing in the sciences.
How do we spell his name?
L-E-D-E-R-B-U-R-G.
My secretary should have his number.
Now, some say that he's a man of a certain age, he must be in his early 70s, and some say he's just too far out in his assumptions that referee journals in the sciences are going to go by the boards and that it'll all be taking place electronically.
But I can't speak at all authoritatively about information transfer in the sciences.
So, he is a...
He's one of the important people in America.
My sense, though, when we're talking about Candide, when we're talking about Shakespeare, when we're talking about the humanities literature, I can't see it being in any other form except for that book.
Maybe I'm... Do you know a single person who's read a book from first page to last on a computer?
No.
And I read a piece recently that might have been in... It wasn't recently or some months ago, The Chronicle of Higher Education, about a person who wanted to read Jane Austen...
The particular text she wanted wasn't in any Barnes and Nobles.
It doesn't say she tried the library, but in any case, there is a Jane Austen website, and it was there, so she could pull down the whole thing.
Well, she was drowning in paper because it was taking days for the whole thing to get printed out, and then she had these massive... It was impossible to handle physically.
This was in what period?
I think it might have been in the Chronicle of Higher Education.
It was somewhere.
And it was kind of hilarious.
She made a big mistake.
She thought she could just do it all from the internet.
Well, she could, but physically it was a royal thing in the earth.
I mean, it was so much more convenient to have a small format book, and it's all day, put it by your bed, you can take it with you on the airplane.
The book is very efficient.
device.
It's user-friendly.
You can fast-forward.
It's very portable.
I think it's the greatest human artifact in history.
It's cheap.
I mean, relatively, you're talking $4 a page to digitize and stuff like that.
I mean, books are very reasonable.
Well, there's another big issue on these digitally formatted information in virtual libraries, and that is that we don't know very much about the preservation.
Well, there are cases around the
things that were formatted 20 years ago, you can't get access to.
Now we know an immense amount, I'm tempted to say we know all there is to know, but we don't, but we know a lot about preserving paper.
We have vast amounts of experience preserving paper.
We can do fabulous things on paper preservation.
I saw this process in Leipzig last year.
It's called Paper Splitting.
Have you ever heard of that?
It's awesome.
Have you ever seen Modern Times, a Chaplin film?
He goes through this huge machine.
Well, it's a machine like that.
It's as long as this room.
Phil, you know, just these great big drums.
It's West German technology that has been installed in Leipzig because the Deutsche Bibliothek, which is the depository library, before the war was in Leipzig,
with partition after the war than there were to Leipzig and Frankfurt, and now they've unified administratively, and so there's a lot of sharing.
Well, let me tell you what paper is.
You take a sheet of 19th-century newsprint or early 20th-century newsprint that's very, very fragile and is crumbling.
You put it into this machine.
You're not going to believe this.
I didn't believe this.
Here's a piece of paper.
It splits it down the middle this way.
It separates page one from page two.
It deacidifies each page.
It puts a piece of neutral paper between it, re-blows it, and it comes up the other end.
So we know a lot about preserving paper.
And we can be sure that there's paper, that we can take fragile paper, acid-based paper,
and treat it in such ways that it will last for hundreds and hundreds of years more.
Is this a fairly unique machine?
Is this just one place?
I think it may... I don't know if there is another.
I'll find out Tuesday if there's another.
And then they also have a mass deacidification process that they've developed where they can put truckloads full of books on acid-based paper into these chambers.
And you don't have to open them, you just put the books in, and then they're all washed with these solvents, and they come out after a couple of hours, all BS at a time.
What do you think it costs per page?
I don't know.
You think it's more than the $4 per page?
It is quite expensive.
I'm sure it's expensive.
And you would only do this, of course, with an exceedingly scarce and rare book.
Well, I don't know.
The stuff that I saw in the trailers, they look like Pulp Fiction from the 50s.
Because they're preserving stuff?
Yes, yes.
Yes, they are.
Without passing judgment on literary merit.
Correct.
Well, you know, if you believe Darnton and Darnton's whole analysis of what people were really reading in the French 18th century, it's not so much Montesquieu.
It's a great book, yeah.
Yeah, it's the stuff that has no literary merit.
It's reminding me of things that have to be honest with you.
So we know a lot about how to preserve this stuff.
We don't know very much about preserving big, big data sets electronically over the space of hundreds of years.
And if you're a library like ours, or like Paris, or Morgan, or the British Library, what have you,
your conservation efforts are focused on hard copy.
And to transfer all this into electronic format and throw away the hard copy and rely on the electronically formatted stuff without knowing how it's going to live for 100 years, 200 years, 300 years, you know, nobody's going to do that.
And you wonder what kind of a grievous mistake you're going to be making.
I mean, when you think of the typesetters who, that's what they call them, the compositors who put the first folio of Shakespeare from the
purportedly from the true original manuscripts?
I said, did I put it tight?
And then what did they do, throw the manuscripts away?
Yes.
I mean, we're basically saying a similar kind of a thing, aren't we?
You throw this away?
Fine, because we're going to be all set.
But guess what?
You're not all set.
Well, supposedly you have some great people, you know,
continent-wide blackout, and your computer gets turned off.
Your library's gone.
Chapter four of this book was erased by my 10-year-old daughter.
It was an 18,000-word.
It had to be totally rewritten, you know, because Dad here didn't have the foresight.
I've done it myself, never on that scale.
But it made for a much better chapter, actually.
Interesting.
Do you have recommendations for people
You mentioned the new French library, people that I could contact who would show me through these.
Oh, sure.
You'll be traveling, will you?
Major traveling, yeah.
This opening chapter is going to be kind of a historical travelogue through libraries.
Oh, wonderful.
Starting when?
I'm going to go to Pergamum.
You are.
Good for you.
Go to Ephesus, where I go to Patmos.
Maybe you could recommend some libraries that are really significant along the way through history.
St.
Carl, you know, the great scriptorium, and find some chained libraries, and just keep St.
Petersburg.
It's going to be crazy.
We may be there at Thanksgiving time, St.
Petersburg.
If you can think of any people I should be contacting,
I haven't made any contact.
Why don't you send me your list and I'll tell you who I know.
The people I know are in the libraries that were represented at the summit.
And I can open doors, I think, at virtually any one of those libraries.
Let me give you a copy of that program, which is the library.
And these are the people who came here.
I found out about this after the fact.
I would have been here.
And then this is a copy of our annual report from last year, which has some wonderful, wonderful things said about the library by people like David Remnick and Toni Morrison and so on and so forth.
That's beautiful.
Yeah, it's just a super issue.
Did you ever see David Remnick's essay on the library, The New Yorker, last May?
Is that in his new collection that's just coming out?
No, it's not.
I'll help my assistant make a copy of it for you.
Oh.
This is a very good trip.
Yeah, I think it's Random House is publishing his...
Yes, I just got an advanced copy, but they're all about people.
They're sort of profiles that were from The New Yorker.
And I had four hours of interviews with him, and it didn't turn out to be a profile on me, which is just as well because... Has there been a profile of you I should know about?
No.
He mentions me in this thing in a very flattering way, but...
I tend to not go for the spotlight.
There are some people who do.
I tend not to.
I don't think it's necessarily the library's best interest to be a big personality.
We went up in a couple of directions, but I thought we'd just... Great, I'm just trying to get back on where I...
I think you really covered your feelings on the digital age.
What was the consensus of your colleagues here?
I read the New York Times reports.
There are a couple more.
It's really an issue that we could talk about for a whole day.
Now, the position that I staked out has to be a little bit more nuanced than I stated it, because it's a partial position.
It's not to deny the profound significance and implication of electronically formatted information.
When I came to the library, I made a decision that we had to put the printed catalog online, because it's 800 volumes long, folio-sized,
The A's alone take up 52 or 53 volumes, and until we put that online, the world won't know what we've got within the collections.
And we are now talking with a private sector partner about digitizing significant portions of the collection for which there is demand and the market.
We don't know very much about market, and we don't have the resources to do the digitization ourselves, but if this project...
materializes, then some very important elements of the New York Public Library's collections will be available electronically.
So I'm putting a lot of emphasis on moving into the electronic age but doing so in a way that is prudent fiscally, that has a return to us, that has a conservation element attached to it, but will not
change our policy or attitude towards keeping hard copy.
That's an excellent quote.
I mean, I can see it in type, too, as you say.
Actually, there were, thank you very much, there were a couple of profiles.
There were two in the New York Times.
Okay, I'll find them.
We'll get them for you.
I was interrupted to say you could see that it was a great quote, you could see it all in type.
It reminded me that Grimes sort of characterized me as...
coming out of the French rationalist tradition, and you could tell when I spoke.
I don't know how true that is.
I wish I could have coined that phrase.
That was a sudden association with the profile.
When you've done enough of these interviews, you can really judge these quotes as you're hearing them.
Well, the people in my press, our press office, always criticize me for not giving sound bites.
I can't give sound bites.
I'm an academic.
I love these long, discursive,
interviews.
When you opened it with that long, you gave me some good stuff I didn't even intend to cover.
I'm also, by the way, going to go to Sarajevo.
I'm really interested.
Oh, what a sad story, though.
And I'm going to cover that in absolute depth.
Breaks my heart.
I was just with Andras Riedelmeyer at Harvard two days ago, who's kind of doing the American, trying to do
head up the Sarajevo project.
Oh, I'd love to meet him.
Put him in contact with me.
I will happily do that in his email, too.
I don't.
Okay, well, fine.
He's a nice, nice man, and I don't have his phone number with me, but I can take care of this when I get home.
Okay.
I just mentioned that if you are into email or anything, he loves to send emails.
Well, I'm on it.
But no one, he would call you in five seconds.
This is the first computer in the president's office in the history of the library.
I know this time, too.
But I'm deluged by, they bring mail in by the wheelbarrow full here just about every day, and then what they do is they wind up printing out the email messages, so they don't have more paper in it.
It's just too much.
I've gotten into it just this morning.
I bought a scanner for my computer.
I'm not totally anti-digital stuff.
I've got a beautiful little Toshiba machine that's going to go with me to places, and it's a tool.
But I'm also going to have a chapter on the emigre booksellers, the Jewish...
booksellers who were forced out of Germany by Hitler.
Are you familiar with Marty Rosenthal's lecture at Columbia in 87?
It was called The Gentle Invaders.
And he identified 50 booksellers.
According to Roger Stoddard, who points, waves his arms at Harvard and says, we owe so much to Hitler here.
And he says this without irony.
You should see Bernard Breslauer.
He's on the list.
Well, he's very old.
He's very old.
Well, I did Otto Bettman, who's 96.
I did Otto with his book.
My father was wonderful.
Well, Breslauer's wonderful, too.
Breslauer feasts, because he took all this over from his father.
He's not that old, is he?
He's in his 80s.
Is he really?
Yeah.
I didn't know he was in his 80s.
I better see him soon.
Yes, that's what I'm saying.
You should.
I put the octogenarians at the top of the list.
All it has to do is trip and it's over.
Well, Otto, I couldn't get to Florida fast enough.
You know why I went to see Otto?
I mean, the Bettman Archive.
Bill Gates.
I'm going out to Corbis next month.
I'm going to spend a couple days.
You know, Corbis, who's digitizing the Bettman Archive, the Hermitage, the Ansel Adams stuff, the Barnes Foundation.
You know, I'm going to comment on this.
Yeah, would you?
No.
Well, not on Gates.
Well, why not?
There's an op-ed piece that I wrote that the Times will run on Saturday.
Oh, okay.
On connecting the public to the Internet through libraries.
Don't comment on Gates by name, but maybe you have a comment on this trend.
No, what I want is for one of these mega-billionaires to do for the nation what Andrew Carnegie did for it at the Ternison.
And I just got the book about his library in Chicago.
I came in yesterday.
I never chanced.
Do you know what the dollar value of his investment was in today's dollars?
No.
Well, over the space of, let's say, 20 years, he built almost 1,700 libraries in over 1,400 communities in America.
He spent $41 million then.
That's the equivalent of a billion dollars today.
I interrupted you while you were making a very good quote.
You'd like to have one of these mega-billionaires do what?
You want to do that as a full, complete quote?
Sure, sure.
What to do for America?
I would like to see one of these mega-billionaires do for the nation what Andrew Carnegie did for it at the turn of the century.
That is to use their wealth
to bring the people into contact with massive amounts of information.
Now, it's said better in this... Because I've had peace Saturday.
I can get you... I'll get the time.
No, we've got the time.
It's one of the few buildings in which the architects design everything, everything, the inside, the outside, every single piece of furniture, the door handles, the whole thing.
That's Voltaire from the library's collection.
This is a wonderful portrait of Franklin that was done during his stint in Paris as the American Minister of Plendipotentiary that came to us from one of the founders of the library.
John Bigelow.
Bigelow was Lincoln's ambassador to France and was a bibliophile, and I took my first job at Union College at Schenectady, because when I went for my interview—I was at a graduate student at Columbia doing a dissertation—I learned about the Bigelow collection in the Union College library, and a vast
proportion of Bigelow's library went to Union, and it was basically 18th and 19th century stuff, and I wrote my whole dissertation out of that library, using the Bigelow collection.
And it's very odd, because I was then 24, 25, and
The circle is completed now because I began my career based on Bigelow's books at Union, and I wind up in the library that Bigelow helped found with a portrait of Franklin, of course, who was a pioneer in American libraries by starting the Library Company of Philadelphia.
Did he sit for that portrait?
Yes.
I believe so.
Wow.
That's exciting, isn't it?
I get a kick out of things like this.
Well, there's an interesting connection between American ambassadors to France and libraries also, because... Franklin was a pioneer in America by starting the Library Company in Philadelphia, became... Which I write about.
...became the Minister Plano Potentiary.
Jefferson was the American ambassador to France also, and then his library became the nucleus for the Library of Congress.
And also the University of Virginia, too, later.
And then Mr. Bigelow was Lincoln's ambassador to France, an important to believe file, and then founded the New York Public Library.
I don't know how many other ambassadors to France have a relationship to libraries like that.
That's a great story.
It is, and I used it in November when I gave a speech in France.
It was the 75th anniversary of the founding of the American Library in Paris, and Ambassador Harriman was one of the dinner co-chairs, so I threaded this throughout that.
If you can't ever see a copy of that little speech, I can give that to you also.
I would, but I don't want to...
Not right now.
Maybe we can mail it to me.
I know we're running out of time.
Are you going to come back to see me?
I'd like to.
Sure.
It'll be a while.
Okay.
I'll wait.
But I can talk to Miss Cunningham, too.
Maybe she can send me some of this stuff, too.
But I don't want to see you.
It's embarrassing me.
How about the speech?
in Paris, for the American library in Paris.
You're wonderful.
Appreciate it.
Good stuff.
I'm going to turn this to the other side.
I'm going to turn this to the other side now.